<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/benshi97/Data_CO_on_MgO/blob/main/analyse.ipynb">

This repository accompanies the paper **A coming of age for many-body methods: Achieving consensus with experiments for CO on MgO** by Benjamin X. Shi, Andrea Zen, Venkat Kapil,  Péter R. Nagy, Andreas Gr&uuml;neis and Angelos
Michaelides.

The data for plotting all of the graphs in the main text and supplemental material can be found in the folder `Data`. The notebook `analyse.ipynb` can be explored interactively with [Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/benshi97/Data_CO_on_MgO/blob/main/analyse.ipynb). The figures generated by `analyse.ipynb` are stored in the `Figures` folder.


## Paper abstract

The adsorption energy of a molecule onto the surface of a material underpins a wide array of applications, spanning heterogeneous catalysis, gas storage and many more. It is the key quantity where experimental measurements and theoretical calculations meet, with agreement being necessary for reliable predictions of reaction rates and mechanisms. The prototypical molecule-surface system is CO adsorbed on MgO, but despite intense scrutiny from theory and experiment, there is still no consensus on its adsorption energy. In particular, the large cost of accurate many-body methods makes reaching converged theoretical estimates difficult, generating a wide range of values. In this work, we address this challenge, leveraging the latest advances in diffusion Monte Carlo (DMC) and coupled cluster theory [CCSD(T)], to obtain accurate predictions for CO on MgO. These reliable theoretical estimates allow us to evaluate the inconsistencies in published temperature programmed desorption experiments, revealing that they arise from variations in employed pre-exponential factors. Using this insight, we derive new experimental estimates of the (electronic) adsorption energy from a more precise pre-exponential factor. With this effort, we are able to reach consensus between multiple theoretical calculations and multiple experiments for the first time. In addition, we show that our recently developed cluster-based CCSD(T) approach provides a low cost route towards achieving accurate adsorption energies. This sets the stage for affordable and reliable theoretical predictions of reaction mechanisms and rates to guide the realization of new catalysts and gas storage materials.
